This lecture is about
the data scientist's toolbox.
So by the data scientist toolbox, I mean
the collection of tools that are used
to store, process, analyze and communicate
results of data science experiments.
And so the first thing that we're gonna
talk about is where do you actually
store the data?
So data are typically
stored in a database.
For a smaller organization that might
be single, small MySQL database.
And for a large organization,
it might be a large distributed
database across many servers.
And so I'm showing you here an example,
the PostgreSQL database, but
there are a large number of other options.
The key take home message here is that in
the database the data are are stored, and
backed up.
Usually, most of the analysis that takes
place and most of the production doesn't
actually happen in the database,
it happens elsewhere.
So, you usually have to pull it out
with another programming language to
pull the data out of that database and
analyze it.
So, the two most common languages for
doing that.
The first one is R Programming Language.
So the R programming language is basically
a statistical programming language that
allows you to pull data out of a database,
analyze it, and
produce visualizations very quickly.
This forms the basis for
our data science specialization.
The other major programming
language that's used for
this type of analysis is Python.
So Python is another similar language that
allows you to pull data out of databases,
analyze and manipulate it, visualize it.
And connected to downstream production.
So the other thing that you need to do
to be able to use these languages and
pull them up out is actually
some kind of servers or
some kind of computers that you can
run those programming languages on.
So you have the database,
which stores the data.
And then you have the servers which you
will use to basically analyze the data.
And those servers will run the languages
R or Python or and so forth.
Here I'm showing you an example,
Amazon Web Services.
This is a set of computing resources
that you can actually rent from Amazon.
And so many organizations that do data
signs actually just directly rent
their computing resources.
Rather than buy and manage their own.
This is particularly true for small
organizations that don't have a large IT
budget, so they would actually go out and
just rent their competing resources,
that then they would be able
to use to analyze data.
Once you've actually done some low-level
analysis and maybe made some discoveries
or done some experiments, and decided
actually how you're gonna use data to
make decisions for your organization
you might want to scale those up.
So there's a large number of sort of
analysis tools that can be used to
provide more scalables analysis of data
sets, whether that's in a database or
by pulling the data out of the database.
So two of the most popular right
now are the Hadoop framework and
the Spark framework.
And both of these are basically ways to
analyze, at a very large scale, data sets.
Now you can do interactive analysis with
both of these, particularly with Spark.
But it's a little bit more complicated.
It's a little bit more expensive,
especially if you're applying
it to large sets of data.
So it's very typical in the data
science process to take the database,
pull out a small sub sample of the data,
process it and analyse it in R or
Python and then go back to the engineering
team and scale it back up with Hadoop, or
Spark, or other tools like that.
So the next tool that
is in the data scientist toolbox
is actually communication.
A data scientist or
a data engineer has a job that's typically
changing quite rapidly as new packages and
new sort of tools become available, and so
the quickest way to keep them up to
speed is to have quick communication and
to have an open channel of communication.
So a lot of data science teams use tools
like Slack to communicate with each other,
to basically be able to post new results,
new ideas.
Be able to communicate about what
the latest packages are available.
And then data scientists are frequently
going to the internet to search for
how do I this really,
what seems like a very simple task,
how do I match IDs together
from two different log files.
That might not be something that they know
how to do, but there are a large number of
sort of help websites like Stack Overflow,
that allow people go out and
sort of search for
the questions that they need to answer.
Even if there quite technical, and quite
detailing, get answers relatively quickly.
And that allows people to sort
of keep the process moving,
even though the technology
is changing quite rapidly.
Once the analysis is done,
and complete, and
you sort of want to share it with
other people in your organization,
you need to do that with sort of
reproducible or literate documentation.
What does that mean?
It basically means a way to
integrate the analysis code and
the figures and the plots that have
been created by the data scientist
with sort of plain text that can be
used to explain what's going on.
One example is the R Markdown framework.
Another example is iPython notebooks.
These are ways to sort of make
your analysis reproducible and
make it possible that if one data
scientist runs an analysis and
they want to hand it off to someone else,
they'll be able to easily do that.
You also need to be able to visualize
often the results of the data
science experiment.
So the end product is often some
kind of data visualization or
interactive data experience.
And there are a large number of tools that
are available to build those sorts of
interactive experiences and
visualizations.
Because at the end user of a data
science product is very often
not a data scientist themselves.
It's often a manager or
an executive who needs to handle that data
understand what's happening with it and
make a decision.
So, there's a large number of tools.
I'm showing one here, Shiny,
which is a way to build quickly
data products that you can share
with people who don't necessarily have
a lot of data science experience.
And then finally, most of the time
when you do a science data experiment,
you don't do it in isolation.
You wanna communicate your
results to other people.
So, people frequently make data
presentations whether that's the data
science manager, the data engineer, or the
data scientist themselves, that actually
explains, how did they actually
perform that data science experiment.
What are the techniques that they use,
what are the caveats, and
how can it be applied to the data to
make a decision like you'd like to?